Sometimes we wonder, what is my value, how valuable am I really?
And in our weak moments we may even wonder, does anyone ever know what I do for Jehovah?
Our text for today gives us real confidence that Jehovah knows everything we do.
He knows every emotional, deep emotion we feel towards Him.
It's Mark 14 verse 8, it reads, and this is what Jesus said of Mary, she did what she could.
Let us examine this account more closely and see how important love of God
and our attitude towards spiritual things play into our value.
Jesus was the guest of honor at the meal, at the house of Simon Delipper.
This was only five days before Jesus celebrated His last Passover.
Among the guests were His disciples, but then they were Mary and Martha and also Lazarus
who had been resurrected just a few weeks earlier.
Mary came and broke open a precious alabaster jar.
It contained very expensive perfume oil.
And then she poured it on the head of Jesus and on His feet and dried His feet with her hair.
The aroma just filled the whole house.
But then something happened that could have spoiled this wonderful occasion
and turned into an ugly argument.
It's turn year to Mark 14 verses 4 and 5.
At this time said to one another indignantly, why has this perfume oil been wasted
for this perfume oil could have been sold for more than 300 denariah and the money given to the poor?
And they were greatly annoyed with her.
The footnote says they spoke angrily to her, they scolded her.
It was as if what she did was out of place and a waste.
Now Jesus responded immediately and He gave this command in verse 6.
But Jesus said, let her alone.
Why do you try to make trouble for her?
She did a fine deed toward me.
So Jesus wouldn't allow the critics to spoil the occasion.
And He says then the words of our text in verse 8, the A part of verse 8, He said she did what she could.
She gave from the purity of her heart her best.
And Jesus knew she did what she could.
And He dignified Mary.
He thanked her for her beautiful gift and He praised her.
And you can be sure that Mary didn't go home that evening feeling useless and degraded.
But then He took this event, what Mary did here, to even a higher level.
We look at verse 8, the B part of verse 8.
He said, she poured perfumed oil on my body beforehand in view of the burial.
Mary had no idea how significant this deed was to Jesus.
Jesus viewed this as preparation for His death and burial, upcoming,
just something that weighing very heavily on His mind.
And what she did was wonderful to Him.
Then He says in verse 9, truly I say to you, wherever the good news has preached in all the world,
what this woman did will also be told in memory of her.
Now Mary didn't do this to make a name for herself.
Jesus put it on the record.
And us even talking about this is fulfillment of that prophecy.
And you can imagine Mary probably is in heaven with Jesus, preparing to bring untold blessings to mankind.
Jesus also addressed the disciples.
And He helped them to understand that the affairs of this life, as important as they may be,
should never override the priority of the kingdom and the interests of the kingdom.
He says in verse 7, He makes three little statements that are very powerful.
The first one for you always have the poor with you.
Always in this case does not mean forever.
It is only while the system is in existence that they would be poor people.
In the new world they will not be poor people.
And anyway, the money they could have obtained for that precious material
would not go very far in helping poverty in the land of Israel or even in the province of Judea.
But Jesus was helping them to understand priorities.
Because He said in the next phrase, you can do them good whenever you want to.
The next day, the next week, the next month, the next year, poverty would still be there and they could do good.
But He wouldn't be there as He says here, but you will not always have me.
The priority at that point in time was not the poor.
It was Jesus.
That was the priority.
And He wanted them to understand the seriousness of the times in which they lived.
We should also just maybe touch a little bit on the viewpoint of Judas.
If you turn to John chapter 12,
it shows that Judas was the one that stirred up this issue in verse 4 and verse 5.
And then it says in verse 6, he that is Judas said this,
though not because he was concerned about the poor,
but because he was a thief and had the money box and used to steal the money in it,
Judas wasn't concerned about the poor people.
And what Mary did did not fit into his agenda.
And then when Jesus publicly counseled them, Judas was so angry.
He left that place and He went to the chief priests
and He arranged to betray Jesus.
And He wanted to know how much will they pay Him.
And they said 30 silver pieces.
Another value of the 30 silver pieces, about a hundred denariah.
So you can see the values that Judas had.
He put a higher value on the ointment than he put on the life of his master.
Now how on earth could Judas do this?
He saw the miracles.
He saw the resurrection of Judas, of the Lazarus.
How could he do this horrible thing?
If we look on John 12, 13 verse 2, it says,
the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas' scariot to betray Him.
So the anger of Judas, the greed of Judas, prepared his insight, opened his insight
for Satan to get in there and put his wicked thoughts in his mind.
That is sobering, isn't it?
So in summary, what do we learn?
We learn that Jehovah knows everything we do.
He knows the love of our heart.
He knows our deepest motives.
And Paul says in Hebrews 6 verse 10,
God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work
and the love you showed for His name.
By ministering and continuing to minister to the holy ones.
The service we render to one another will never be forgotten.
And we never know the consequences.
Paul also says in another place that by hospitality some unknowingly entertained angels.
And when Jehovah rewards us with ever-lasting life,
that will be the ultimate statement of our value.
We are so important to Jehovah that He wants us to be around forever.
What powerful lessons will learn from these few words?
Stop making trouble for her.
She did what she could.